okay so I've been studying the story of
job and Jo story of job is the story of
suffering yes and meaningless right what
seems like random events right well or
worse than random malevolent malevolent
right so so worse than random okay so
this is how the story sets itself up so
we're told at the beginning of the story
that job is a good man and so and we
have the testimony of God himself on on
job's account and so God up in heaven um
bragging away so to speak about how good
job is and his sons come to observe and
one of whom is Satan and Satan says I
don't think job's that good I think he's
just fortunate and God says no I think
he's good and Satan says why don't you
let me have a crack at him and we'll see
if he's good and so God says yeah okay
have do your worst
and in consequence and that's the
malevolent element let's say at least
the arbitrary element but perhaps the
malevolent element job loses everything
that he's worked for virtually
everything he works for he loses much of
his family he's uh he's he becomes very
ill and not just ill but in ill in a way
that's disfiguring and shameful and then
his friends come along his friends and
tell him that well you know if he had
been a better guy none of this would
have happened so really it's his fault
and then job job has a response and this
is why I'm bringing up this story job's
response is to insist that despite
proximal
evidence it's a
requirement to maintain faith in the
essential goodness of the individual
especially an individual who's been
conducted himself ethically which job
has been by his own testimony and by
God's testimony we know job is a good
man and job job's wife tells him when
she observes his suffering she says
there's nothing left for you to do but
shake your fist at God curse him and die
and job says instead and he insists this
to his friends he refuses to lose faith
in his essential goodness and he also
refuses to lose faith in the essential
goodness of God and there's something
it's something like this and this is
what's relevant to the shattered
assumptions notion is
that in order to stabilize the structure
through which you view the world it is
necessary to adopt as axiomatic the
notion that whatever happens to you if
you conduct yourself ethically is the
best thing that could happen regardless
of the proximal evidence and also it's
necessary for you not to lose faith
faith in the essential goodness of being
itself and those are those are religious
proclamations right they're
proclamations of a kind of religious
Faith right right well and it seems to
me to and tall and tall orders at that
right oh God the the yes the tallest in
fact the tallest of ERS exactly well
it's interesting a because the Book of
Job is one of the books that really sets
the stage in the biblical Corpus for the
story of the crucifixion right because
the crucifixion story is the story of
Job expanded even more
thoroughly right now these shattered
assumptions that you
describe they they seem to me to be
identical to axioms of Faith
conceptually
speaking right they're eight prior
commitments except yes at some level
except you know they develop you know
the way we think we should need to think
about them is these developed from early
infancy from childhood I mean these are
they're based in you know it's not like
somebody's taking a leap of faith faith
is based on you know you don't need sort
of um there validity in the world is
irrelevant do you know that's what faith
is about right um You Don't things don't
have to there's no proof right um it's
it's it's it's it you take it a leap an
Act of Faith these are fundamental
beliefs based on experience they're not
they're not just you know sort of Pie in
the Sky they're not things that you know
I I I want to believe that these are not
desires they're based on let's say the
infant who is getting good enough
parenting not great parent good enough
parenting realizes the world is
predictable the child cries the mother
the father come and help the world
becomes meaningful becomes benevolent
you know it's good world I'm getting fed
I must be worth something I mean these
are very you know
rudimentary kind of beliefs but it
starts there and and it builds and you
know what comes first obviously gets
confirmed um I do think though you were
calling them naive at one level it's
what allows us to wake up in the morning
and approach the day okay yeah assuming
our assumptions haven't been shattered
they haven't been shattered that's right
but even if they have been shattered the
the the the what we what um is also
important to recognize is people that
started with these positive assumptions
actually do better in coping with the
shattered beliefs because they actually
have something to kind of move back to
okay if you start with very negative
beliefs about the world if you start
with you know you are going to be more
prone to possibly the a realistic view
of the world being bad if that's what
you know uh when bad things do happen in
the world right to good people right bad
things happen to good people um then
nevertheless you are going to be more
prone to depression and anxiety just you
know living in the world world is harder
so some of these what seem like illusory
beliefs are you know are what allow us
to be you talked about motivation it
allows us to get be motivated on a daily
basis to function and operate and you
know love and care and you know so I do
think and and they have
long-term um consequences when bad
things happen because what happens if
after the shattering is people try to
rebuild these assumptions in the best
cases and by the most cases not the
cases that all go to psychologists and
whatever if you if you did huge
Community surveys which we did you find
lots of people have gone through some
really horrible things and don't
necessarily go to a clinician you know
now everybody goes to clinicians 30 40
years ago that wasn't the case um people
people coped they did well know they had
people who cared around them they their
own um sort of internal worlds allow
them to to tr of deal one thing that I
found that was fascinating for example
is that
self-blame was remarkably common after
all of these things even when I I I was
I I I did some work with um people who
are paraplegics or quadriplegics from
being shot randomly on the street or um
just um you Rand truly random events you
and I would unquestionably call random
when as a V for for the victim and um
this it would still engage in some self-
blame now why it's it's not and by the
way the only literature that talked
about self- blame were rape victims
because everybody was blaming the women
anyway right which was just because
victims blame themselves doesn't mean
they're blameworthy okay so why why
blame why engage in this in in you know
in ways that seem inappropriate given
the true situation it's because that
allowed people to get some sense of
control to start believing the world
isn't random to start believing the
world is not as bad as they thought
taking some of the blame on themselves
now the sad part of that is of course
other people could then blame them more
if they were blaming themselves when
that is not appropriate or legitimate
but what we do in terms of our own
coping I think is really kind of
fascinating and that was something that
was surprising to me seeing all this
self-blame but there are lots of other
ways people cope you know um they think
of worse cases um but people would you
know sort of try to rebuild assumptions
of course initially there's a lot of
numbing and people can't kind of deal
with the situation but over time you get
all the intrusive thoughts right not the
denial but the intrusive thoughts when
you're ready to work on it and our
brains are are our our human species
systems are remarkable at working on
things that need to be solved even when
we're not conciously doing it right and
over time what I found is people did
remarkably well that doesn't mean they
they never rarely return to the same as
you would say naive assumptions but they
turn to more positive assumptions about
the world and were sadder but wiser